[MUSIC]
So, we actually mentioned
processes before.
This is one of the advantages of having an
operating system, is that you can execute
multiple processes,
multiple programs at the same time.
A process is the execution of a program.
So if I start a program,
I've started a process.
A process is basically a run
time instance of a program.
So Linux allows multiple
processes to run concurrently.
Now, remember I said not really
concurrently but it's swapping them in and
out so fast that to a user it
looks like it's concurrent.
You can have a foreground process,
one that's running in the foreground
that the human is interacting with.
And then the rest of the processes
are background processes that run in
the background.
They're useful, having multiple processes
running in the background is immensely
useful so the machine can be taking care
of all these things that you take for
granted while you're not doing it.
So while you're doing your word
processing or whatever it is, the machine
can be grabbing your email from
an email server, downloading a file for
you in the background,
waiting for network connections.
Maybe you got like a server
running on your machine that's
waiting for connection.
Checking for viruses, right?
Your virus checking machine, it can
be searching your drive checking for
viruses while you're doing
whatever you're doing.
So there are lots of different reasons
why you have these background processes.
Actually the operating system Linux and
Unix,
Unix really, they call these background
processes demons a lot of the time.
Cuz they're sort of lurking in
the background doing things for you right?
So you've got these demons that are just
running essential tasks in the background
while you work.
So in Linux if you want to view
a process you use a command called ps.
Ps we're seeing the output
of ps right here.
Now ps, actually this is ps I've
given it an a option a is for all.
So ps by default, if you just type ps
it'll give you the processes started from
that shell, from the current shell.
From the current user, right?
Which is a short list, actually in this
case I just see the shell itself and
maybe the ps function itself.
But if I wanna see every process running
on the machine I can type psa and
this is just a subset of them,
it's a very long list, but
you can see each row is
a different process.
The left most column is
a process ID number, so
every process gets a unique ID number.
And you can see that unique
ID number on the left.
Kill can be used to kill a process,
so you can type kill and
give its process ID number and
kill the process.
And this is useful a lot,
because, basically,
you can kill a job that's
having a problem, right?
So, say your browser's locked up.
You can open the terminal window,
type psa, see all your processes,
and then kill the process
that's devoted to the browser.
And it will kill that browser and
everything else will still keep running,
so kill's useful.
Shutdowns another command
that you should use.
So shutdown basically,
whenever you have a Linux box,
you shouldn't just unplug
it all of a sudden.
You should shut it down properly.
Proper shutdown procedure is needed to
set data structures maintain certain
data structures in the operating system.
Flush buffers,
close files things like this.
So you don't shut down a Linux machine,
sorry,
you don't just unplug it you shut it down.
So all you do is type shutdown at
the command prompt and that shuts it down.
Then it will do all its' shutdown
stuff and it'll power it down.
Thank you.
[MUSIC]